James 4.7, oppose the devil and he will flee from you is indeed a powerful encouragement.
By these reassuring words, Jehovah reminds us of the potential we have.
Why can we say so?
Because Jehovah would never expect us to do something that is beyond our abilities.
And even if we ourselves in certain situations might feel we are not having the strength
anymore.
We know Jehovah will empower us.
Now, when was it the last time that you opposed the devil?
We all understand the general concept of James 4.7 and yet it might be a challenge to get
specific when it comes to applying it on a personal level.
We are not having conversations directly with the devil as Jesus did when he was tempted
three times.
And we know that this devil might not cause all of our problems.
But we also know that he is sure to use them for his purpose.
Therefore, let us try to analyze two examples, two areas where we oppose the devil and
experience that he flee from us.
First of all, let's talk about our health.
Now health problems are something most of us have to deal with in one way or another.
Sadly, some of us have even to deal with serious issues or disabilities.
So now, what does this have to do with opposing the devil?
One of the subtle attacks of the devil is trying to use our proper concern for our health
in order to shift our focus away from spiritual things.
He wants to make use of us being overly distracted.
He would like us becoming consumed with matters of health to the extent that they take first
place in our life.
Or he would like us to go to extremes in striving and to maintain our health.
But he has no success.
One of the reasons we find in Luke 12, I'd like to invite you to open with me, Luke 12,
and we would like to read verse 25.
Here Jesus asked a good question.
He says, who of you by being anxious can add a cubit to his lifespan?
So why we take good care of our health in line with Jesus' words found in Luke 5 verse 31,
we are not becoming undulyed anxious over things we cannot control.
At the convention I talked to one of the attendants, a brother in his 30s.
At first, it was just a normal small talk.
Later in the conversation, he revealed to me that he was actually supposed to be at
the hospital.
The doctors had told him that he would not survive the next five months.
Would he now be fully absorbed in finding some treatment and forgetting all his spiritual
routine?
No, our brother persisted in getting some medicine to be able to attend the convention.
He wanted to serve as attendant.
He wanted to care for others.
And so strengthened by the program, he was ready to go back to the hospital the next day.
We are not sacrificing our spirituality.
We maintain our spiritual balance.
And despite our challenges, we are caring for others.
In this way, we oppose the devil and some of us on a daily basis.
Now let's look at the second example.
Another area where we successfully oppose the devil is our attitude.
We all know the attitude makes a big difference in life.
For example, a positive or a negative attitude can influence how we deal with certain situations
and how other people react to us.
The same is true with a complaining or a grateful attitude.
If we had a bad attitude, nothing would seem right, even when from an objective point
of view, life is just good.
It would be like putting a dirty towel on a nice piece of decoration in our room.
So what does this have to do with opposing the devil?
A negative attitude can be used by Satan.
It can accumulate in our heart and overpower our ability to decide wisely.
We might lose our joy in Jehovah's service.
It also can weaken our resolve to resist wrongdoing.
So do we see how the devil would be able to benefit from it?
Of course, as Christ followers, we avoid negative or a complaining attitude, although this
is not always easy.
But maybe we feel down because we are sometimes not content with what we are able to accomplish.
Are we, for example, disappointed at times that we did not reach a goal that we've set
for ourselves?
Maybe we were encouraged to spend more time in the ministry and then things just did not
turn out the way we planned it.
And then we are sitting in the congregation meeting, we are listening to nice experiences
of others.
How do we feel?
Are we discouraged?
That can be dangerous.
Let's turn to Proverbs 24 together.
Let's read together 20 Proverbs, chapter 24, the verse 10, because here this danger that
can be utilized by Satan is identified.
Here we read Proverbs 24, verse 10, if you become discouraged in the day of distress,
that's what we were talking.
Your strength will be meager.
Prolonged negative feelings can rob us of our strength, making us feel weak and vulnerable.
Satan knows this well.
It is difficult enough if our heart is plagued with such feelings of unworthiness or worthlessness.
However, when Satan attempts to exploit such feelings, it makes such a situation even
more burdensome.
So as we maintain a balanced view of ourselves, or as the Apostle Paul calls it in Romans 12,
verse 3, as we maintain a sound mind, we oppose the devil.
As we remind ourselves that Jehovah just expects 100%, our personal 100%, today is 100%.
Not the 100% of somebody else, not the 100% of what we were able to do years ago, as we
keep this balanced view of ourselves, we are not doing the devil's work.
So when was it the last time that you opposed the devil?
We just discussed two subtle forms of his attack.
Probably we are all opposing the devil on a daily basis.
We do not allow ourselves to be unduly anxious in health matters, and we work hard in maintaining
a good attitude.
In fact, that we are here together today is proved that we all oppose the devil and that
we experience that he flees from us.